# Exploratory Analysis on Nigerian Weather Dataset
**PROJECT SUMMARY**

By ODUMUYIWA AYOMIKUN

Weather plays an essential role in the agricultural output of any nation. Given the right weather conditions, there can be high output, and adverse weather conditions would affect production. As the weather is unpredictable, one cannot determine the weather at any given time. Given this current predicament, I want to examine the weather patterns over the years and see relationships and correlations that I can use to be able to predict weather patterns that are likely to happen in the future.
This project would require me to apply data science skills that I am currently still trying to gain by enrolling in the IBM professional data science certificate. However, the majority of the skills that I would require to complete this project successfully are yet to be gained as I am still currently in the learning stage. This is my most significant obstacle.
The result obtained from this project would help me determine the trends and patterns in the weather that would enable me to be able to successfully predict the weather based on the patterns observed over the years. Furthermore, the result would allow farmers in particular, as they are the ones affected the most by the weather, the ability to plan and avoid being caught unaware of any sudden changes in weather conditions. Necessary measures can also be taken in other to prevent losses when unfavourable weather conditions approach.
In other to achieve this, the first step is to get the required datasets needed for this project. This dataset would consist of the following: precipitation amount (amount of rainfall), humidity level, Temperature (minimum, maximum and average) and solar/sunlight radiation and wind speed. These are the factors I am looking at as they are the factors that affect the agricultural output of farmers the most. The dataset would range from 2010/2012 depending on the years that I can find. After this, I would clean the data which involves removing redundant values. After cleaning the data, I would begin analysis which would start with me placing the data sets into a database in other to write queries required to filter out the data I need. I want to see how the following selected factors change each month through the years and by how much. This would allow me to see which of the months have the highest and lowest values of the factors stated above and how these values change over the years. In other to see these relationship, I would use visualization techniques which would enable me to depict these changes diagrammatically and note other trends that I had not previously seen.
This is the project I plan to do and the result I would like to see at the end of this project.
